website/docs/serviceberry-api.md, before:

---
id: serviceberry
title: Serviceberry
---

### *object*






Properties
----------

  - [createTrunk([options])](#createtrunkoptions)
  - [statusCodes *object*](#statuscodes)
  - [HttpError *class*](#httperror)

Reference
---------


### createTrunk([options])



Creating a trunk using this factory function is the first thing you'll do when createing a service. This is the entry
point to the framework and every request. All branches and leaves will originate from here.


  - **options** *object* [optional]
    - **port** *number* [optional]
  
    - **host** *string* [optional]
  
    - **basePath** *string* [optional]
  
    - **backlog** *number* [optional]
  
    - **timeout** *number* [optional]
  
    - **deserializers** *object* [optional]
  
    - **serializers** *object* [optional]
  
    - **callback** *function* [optional]
  



```javascript
const service = serviceberry.createTrunk({
  port: 3000,
  basePath: "api",
  timeout: 10000
});

```
### statusCodes

All the status in [http.STATUS_CODES](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v8.x/docs/api/http.html#http_http_status_codes)
in addition to codes keyed by constant case status text such as `statusCodes.OK === 200` and `statusCodes.NOT_FOUND === 404`.
 

### HttpError

A constructor function for creating HTTP specific error objects. [HttpError](httperror.hml)

Commit message:

working more on documentation site

website/docs/serviceberry-api.md, after:

---
id: serviceberry
title: Serviceberry
---

### *object*

When you require `serviceberry` this is the object that you recieve. The most important property is `createTrunk()`.
A service is created as a [trunk](trunk.html) then [branches](branches.html) and [leaves](leaf.html) are added using
`.at()` and `.on()` of the trunk and resulting branches. All parts of the tree can have plugins and error handlers attached
with `.use()` and `.catch()`.





Properties
----------

  - [createTrunk([options])](#createtrunkoptions)
  - [statusCodes *object*](#statuscodes)
  - [HttpError *class*](#httperror)

Reference
---------


### createTrunk([options])



Creating a trunk using this factory function is the first thing you'll do when creating a service. This is the entry
point of the framework.


  - **options** *object* [optional]
    - **port** *number* [optional]
  
    - **host** *string* [optional]
  
    - **basePath** *string* [optional]
  
    - **backlog** *number* [optional]
  
    - **timeout** *number* [optional]
  
    - **deserializers** *object* [optional]
  
    - **serializers** *object* [optional]
  
    - **callback** *function* [optional]
  



```javascript
const service = serviceberry.createTrunk({
  port: 3000,
  basePath: "api",
  callback: () => console.log("Sevice started!")
});

```
### statusCodes

This is a helper for avoiding magic numbers and helping your services and plugins be more legible.
It isn't strictly necessary for use with Serviceberry. It is here for your convenience.

It includes all the statuses in Node's [http.STATUS_CODES](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v8.x/docs/api/http.html#http_http_status_codes)
in addition to codes found at constant case property status names (such as `statusCodes.OK === 200` and `statusCodes.NOT_FOUND === 404`).
 

### HttpError

A class for creating HTTP specific error objects. Like [`statusCodes`](#statuscodes) above,
it isn't strictly necessary for use with Serviceberry.

The [HttpError](httperror.hml) constructor has the same arguments signature as
[`request.fail()`](request.html#failerror-status-headers) and is instanced internally with a request fails.
It is the error object available at `request.error`.
